For you individually though,
does it make you sad that your brain ends,
that you die one day very soon
that the whole thing that, that, that, uh, that data source just goes offline
sooner than you did. Like.
That's a complicated question.
I would have answered it differently in different times in my life.
I had chronic depression for 10 years. And so in that 10 year, time period,
I desperately wanted lights to be off.
And the thing that made it even worse is I was in a religious,
I was born into a religion. It was the only reality I ever understood.
And it's difficult to articulate to people when you're born into that kind of
reality.
And it's the only reality you've exposed to you are literally blinded to the
existence of other realities, because it's so much the ingroup outgroup thing.
And so in that situation,
it was not only that I desperately wanted lights out forever.
It was that I couldn't have lights out from it.
It was that there was an afterlife and this afterlife had this
system that would either penalize or, or, uh,
reward you for your behaviors. And so it was almost like this
is indescribable hopelessness of not only
being in hopeless despair of not wanting to exist,
but then also being forced to be to exist.
And so there was a duration of my time of alteration of life where I'd say like,
yes,
I have no remorse for lights being out and actually
want it more than anything in the entire world.
There are other times where I'm looking out at the future and I say,
this is an opportunity for future evolving human conscious
experience. That is beyond my ability, understand it.
And I jumped out of bed and I raced to work.
And I can't think about anything else, but I,
I think the, the reality for me is,
I don't know what it's like to be in your head, but in my head,
when I wake up in the morning, I don't say good morning, Brian,
I'm so happy to see you. Like,
I'm sure you're just going to be beautiful to me today.
You're not going to make a huge long list of everything you should be anxious
about. You're not going to repeat that list to me 400 times.
You're not going to have me re relive all the regrets I've made in life.
I'm sure you're not doing any of that.
And you're just going to just help me along all day long. I mean,
it's a brutal environment in my brain and we've just become
normalized to this environment that we just accept that this is what it means to
be human. But if we look at it,
if we try to muster as much soberness as we can about the realities of being
human, it's brutal if it is for me.
And so am I sad that the brain may be
off one day? Hmm.
It depends on the contextual setting. Like,
how am I feeling at what moment are you asking me that? And that's,
it's my mind is so fickle and this is why, again,
I don't trust my conscious mind. I have been given realities. I gave,
I was given a religious reality. That was a video game.
And then I figured out it was not a real reality.
And then I lived in a depressive reality,
which delivered this terrible hopelessness. That wasn't a real reality.
Then I discovered a behavioral psychology,
and I figured out how bias 188 critical biases and how my brain is distorting
reality. At the time I have gone from one reality to another,
I don't trust reality. I don't trust realities that are given to me.
And so to make,
try to make a decision on what I value or not value of that future state.
I don't trust my response.
So not fully,
not fully listening to the conscious mind at any one moment as the
ultimate truth, but allowing you to go up and down as it does and just kind of.
Observing it. Yes.
I assume that whatever my conscious mind delivers up to my awareness is
wrong on pawn landing. And I just need to figure out where it's wrong,
how what's wrong, how wrong it is, and then try to correct for it as best I can.
But I, I assume that on impact it's,
it's mistaken in some critical ways.
Is there something you can say by way of advice when the mind is
depressive, when the conscious mind serves up something that a,
you know, dark thoughts, how you deal with that,
my calling your own life you've overcome that.
And others who are experienced in that, uh, can overcome it.
Two things. One that those depressive
states are biochemical states.
It's not you.
And the suggestions that these things that this state delivers to you about
suggestion of the hopelessness of Lysol or the meaninglessness of it, or
that you should hit the eject button. That's a false reality.
Yeah.
And that it's when I completely
understand the rational decision to commit suicide,
there's it is not lost on me at all, but that is,
that is an international situation.
But the key is when you're in that situation of those thoughts are landing to be
able to say, thank you. You're not real.
I know you're not real. Yeah. And so I'm in a situation where,
for whatever reason, I'm having this, this a neurochemical state,
but that state can be altered. And so it, again,
it goes back to the realities of, of the difficulties of, of being human.
And like, when I was trying to solve my depression,
I tried literally F you name it.
I tried it systematically and nothing would fix it.
And so this is what gives me hope with brain interfaces, for example, like,
could I have numbers on my brain? Can I see what's going on?
Because I go to the doctor and it's like, how do you feel? I don't know,
terrible, like on a scale from one to 10, how bad you want to commit suicide 10,
like.
Okay, at this moment, here's this, here's this.
Bottle. How much should I take? Well, I don't know. Like just.
Yeah, it's very, very crude. And as data opens up the, the,
yeah,
it opens up the possibility of really helping in those dark moments to
first understand the ways the ups and downs of postdoc.
One was on the complete flip side of that. I,
I am a very conscious in my own brain and deeply,
deeply grateful that what there it's,
it's almost like a chemistry thing,
a biochemistry thing that I go many times throughout the day,
I'll,
I'll look at like this cup and I'll be overcome with
joy, how amazing it is to be alive. Like, I actually think I'm,
my biochemistry is such that it's not as common.
Like I've talked to people and I don't think that's that common. Like it's,
and it's not a rational thing at all. It's like,
I feel like I'm on drugs and I'll just be like, whoa.
And a lot of people talk about like the meditative experience will allow you to
sort of, you know, look at some basic things,
like the movement of your hand as a deeply joyful,
because it's like that's life. But I get that from just looking at a cup,
like I'm waiting for the coffee to brew and I'll just be like.
Life is awesome. And I'll sometimes tweet that, but then I'll like,
regret it later. Like, God it. You so a ridiculous. But yeah. So,
but that is purely chemistry. I there's no rational.
It doesn't fit with the rest of my life. I have all this.
I'm always late to stuff. I'm always like, there's all stuff, you know,
I'm super, self-critical like really self-critical about everything. I do. I,
to the point, I almost hate everything I do,
but there's this engine of joy for life outside of all that,
and that has to be chemistry.
And the flip side of that is what depression probably is,
is the opposite of that feeling of like,
cause I, I bet you that feeling of the cup being amazing is would save
anybody in a state of depression. Like they, that will be like fresh.
You're in a desert and it's, it's a drink of water. Uh,
man, the brain is, uh,
it would be nice to understand where that's coming from to be able to, um,
to understand the, how,
how you hit those lows and those highs that have nothing to do with the actual
reality it has to do with some very specific aspects, uh,
of, uh, how you maybe see the world.
Maybe it could be just like basic habits you engage in.
And then it's hard to walk along the line to, to find those experiences of joy.
And this goes back to the discussion we're having of human cognition is in
volume, the largest input of raw material into society.
Yeah. And it's not quantified, we have no bearings on it.
And so we just, you wonder,
we both articulated some of the challenges we have in our own mind,
and it's likely that others would say I have something similar.
And you wonder when you look at society, what,
how does that contribute to all the other compounder problems that we're
experiencing? How does that blind us to the,
all the opportunities we could be looking at? And so it really,
it has this potential distortion effect on
reality. That just makes everything worse.
And I hope if we can put some, if we can
assign some numbers to these things, just to get our bearings.
So we're aware of what's going on.
If we could find greater stabilization in how we conduct our lives and how we
build society, it,
it might be the thing that enables us to scaffold, uh,
because we've really, again, we've done it. Uh, uh,
humans have done a fantastic job, systematically scaffolding,
technology and science and institutions. It's human.
These are our own selves, which we have not been able to scaffold it's it's.
We are the,
we are the one part of this intelligence infrastructure that remains unchanged.